---
title: My Notes on AOJ 1
tags: competitive-programming
---

#### [2709 Dark Room](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2709)

---
It can be easily we should make the transitions while considering only the dark room.
So consider finding the minimum value of the indicator sequence in DP with the bit sequence representing the dark room we are in now as a state.

dp[i][S] = minimum length of the indicator sequence until we reach state S for i or less instructions.

Let S' be a state that can be transitioned to by issuing an indication k(1<=k<=K) to the state of S,

dp[i+1][S] = dp[i][S'] + 1 for all S'

It follows that the reduction formula
For all states S, dp[i][S] <= dp[j][S](i < j), it is sufficient to compute the transition from each state once and the total computational cost can be calculated in O(KM2^M).


#### [1194 Vampire](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=1194)

---


Since the input is an integer less than or equal to 20, we can consider the intervals [i,i+1](-r<=i<=r).
Simulate moving the sun (circle) forward on the y-axis, keeping the maximum height of the building in each interval (use the tri-square theorem to get the y-coordinate of the sun at the last moment). 

#### [2170 Marked Ancestor](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2170)

---

First, we reorder the vertices in the visitation order of the DFS to reduce them to 2*N one-dimensional columns A (in the example in question, A = {1, 2, 2, 4, 4, 2, 3, 3, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 3, 1} ) (the method in the ant book Eulerian Tour)
Where ,
id1[u] = the index of where node u first appeared in column A,
id2[u] = index of the last place where node u appeared in column A,
depth[u] = the depth of the node u,
B[u] = Among the marked ancestors of node u, the <b>largest</b> node number in depth (initially all the B elements are 1)
Then each operation can be reworded as follows
M v: For B[u] (id1[v]<=∀u<=id2[v]), update B[u] with v if depth[u] < depth[v]
Q v: Add B[id1[v]] to your answer
These operations can be computed in O(log N) using the lazy evaluation segment tree, and since DFS only takes O(N), the total can be computed in O((Q + N) log N).
If you look ahead to the query, you can also use Union Find (the above is difficult to implement).


#### [1347 Shopping](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=1347)
dp[i] = minimum distance traveled when going all the way from store 1 to store i
DP as O(N^2).



#### [2176 For the Peace](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2176)

Problem : A[i] = c<sub>i,1</sub>+...+c<sub>i,mi</sub>として,
A[i] = c<sub>i,1</sub>+... +c<sub>i,mi</sub> as,
For a given i, subtract c<sub>i,j</sub> from A[i] (j is a constant satisfying 1 <= j <= mi)
Can all A[i] be set to 0 by repeating the operation max(A[i]) - min(A[i]) <= D?

---

A given operation can be divided into four cases: Op1. max(A[i]) - min(A[i]) <= D
Op1. reduce max(A[i]) and min(A[i])
Op2. max(A[i]) only reduces
Op3. min(A[i]) only reduces
Op4. max(A[i]) and min(A[i]) are unchanged
In fact, when there are multiple operations that are possible in a state, the order in which they are performed is not relevant. For example, in state A[i], when the operations by Op1 and Op2 are possible, let A''[i] be the state of Op1 in A[i] and A'''[i] be the state of Op2 in A[i], then it is easy to prove that max(A''[i]) == max(A'''[i]), with Op1 and Op2 Whichever one you do first, you can transition to the same state. In other words, to get all A[i] to zero, you only need to perform one of the operations that are possible in each state.  Conversely, if there are no possible operations in a state, it is impossible to set all A[i] to zero. Finding possible operations can be done by O(n log n) using, for example, set, and the total computational complexity is O(M * n log n) (M = Σmi). In fact, we implemented the above operation in reverse (i.e., adding rather than subtracting), since the solutions are also equal.

http://acm-icpc.aitea.net/index.php?plugin=attach&refer=2009%2FPractice%2F%E6%A8%A1%E6%93%AC%E5%9C%B0%E5%8C%BA%E4%BA%88%E9%81%B8%2F%E8%AC%9B%E8%A9%95&openfile=b.pdf:title=解説

it seems that there are more creative ways to find possible operations.


#### [2298 Starting Line](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2298)

---

Given the transitions going one meter at a time, it is clear that <b>if acceleration is possible at each point, then it is better to accelerate</b>, so we simulate O(L) while adopting a greedy strategy. Is the constraint a trick?


#### [2723 Surface Area of Cubes](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2723)

---


Add and subtract the surface area while excluding blocks and count up. Subtract from the answer any adjacent blocks that are excluded. Note also the boundaries. O(N^2).


#### [2534 Dictionary](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2534)

---



Make directed graphs in the order of alphabets that can be determined from a given input. For example, we plot an edge k' -> k if there is a relationship k < k' for characters k and k'.
If the graph has no closed circuit, it can be said to be in lexicographic order, and closed circuits can be detected by DFS.


#### [2320 Infinity Maze](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2320)

---


Since the number of states is only 4 * H * W at most, any move beyond 4 * H * W always includes a loop. Therefore, we only simulate O(HW).

#### [2182 Eleven Lover](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2182)

---

dp[i][j] = 11 divided by the number such that the remainder is j, "S[k].... S[i]"(1<=k<=i) as the total number of digits DP. Be careful not to count up those with the highest digit of 0.


#### [2157 Dial Lock](http://judge.u-aizu.ac.jp/onlinejudge/description.jsp?id=2157)

---

First, we see that there is only a difference between the initial state and the target state.
Then we see that we can find "the minimum number of operations for a sequence A[i] of length k consisting of numbers between 0 and 9, when we repeatedly add t (-9<=t<=9) to the consecutive intervals and set them all to 0 (mod 10)".
If we try to implement this operation in a straightforward manner, the number of states will be O(10^k) and we will not be able to find them in time.
Let A[i] be A[l](1 <= l <= k), then any sequence of operations with <b>A[l] as the left end of the interval is (an operation that sets A[l] to 0) + (A[l+1]). . The operation sequence for A[n]) </b>.
For example, the operations adding a to [l,r] and adding b to [l, r'] (l <= r < r' <= k) are replaced by the operations adding a + b to [l, r] and b to [r + 1, r'] (!)
We can also see that the operation of adding t (-9<=t<=-1) to the interval is replaced by the operation of adding 10 + t. Thus the left end of the column is replaced by the operation of adding b to [r + 1, r'] (!).
Therefore, it is sufficient to find the minimum number of operations when we repeat only the operation that makes the left end of the column 0.
Since there are O(k - l) operations to set A[l] to 0 and each operation takes O(k), the total computational cost is O(k! * k).

The ↑ is [http://acm-icpc.aitea.net/index.php?plugin=attach&refer=2009%2FPractice%2F%E5%A4%8F%E5%90%88%E5%AE%BF%2F%E8%AC%9B%E8%A9%95& openfile=2c.pdf:title=explanation]As is.

As a result, I didn't care about the differences.
At first I thought of enumerating all of the states, but the number of states does not fall from O(10^k), so it was useless.

